MAJOR PROJECT AND SEMINAR
• M.Tech Project: An efficient channel estimation scheme in MIMO TDD systems (May’19 - Present)
Guide: Prof. Kumar Appaiah, Electrical Engineering, IIT Bombay
Objective: To design an efficient channel estimation scheme in Time Division Duplexing (TDD) with the
help of feedback in MIMO Communication which will reduce the effect of pilot contamination on MIMO channel
estimation.
Completed work: Implemented Multi Cell MMSE based MIMO precoding in multiple antenna cellular
systems which used non-orthogonal pilots for channel estimation.
◦ Analysed and implemented covariance based channel estimation which uses Bayesian estimation in single
cell multi antenna system and observed its performance based on rate vs number of antennas.
◦ Implemented Kalman estimation for multi antenna cellular system.
◦ Parameterized the feedback for postcoder in massive MIMO TDD systems with multi antenna users.
◦ Formulated a lower bound on the achievable rate for systems with perfect CSIT and partial CSIR.
Ongoing work: Working on implementing a basic precoder which utilises the information obtained from Kalman
estimate in coordinated MIMO systems.
• M.Tech Seminar: Inter cell interference in Multi Cell MIMO systems
(Jul’18 - Nov’18 )
Guide: Prof. Kumar Appaiah, Electrical Engineering, IIT Bombay
◦ Studied the structure and working of MIMO systems and impact on BER upon using Non-orthogonal pilot
sequences for channel estimation.
◦ Simulated BER vs SNR for MIMO systems in Interference and Interference-free scenarios to study the impact
of pilot contamination on the performance of the system.
WORK EXPERIENCE
• Systems Engineer | Infosys Technology Ltd
(Dec’15 - Jul’17 )
◦ Tools Used: Oracle Peoplesoft.
◦ Roles and responsibilities: Part of the team which developed an application which automates billing for the
customers of the client.
◦ Wrote code for fetching data into the module and to develop features using Oracle Peoplesoft ERM tool.
◦ Assisted in designing billing template in XML and in completion of Technical Document Report for the project.
KEY PROJECTS
• Interview Management Software [Non-Academic Project]
(Feb’18 - present)
Guide: Prof. Bikash Kumar Dey, Prof. Madhu N. Belur, Electrical Engineering, IIT Bombay
◦ Lead role in building an online system that made automatic coordination across interview committees
possible through their interface.
◦ The online system allowed committees to decide in real-time using a cross platform web application about
interviews.
◦ Built various other peripheral interfaces to collect data at different times from students and other sources.
◦ This system was used successfully in the last 3 admission sessions.
• Scheduling in 4G LTE
(Jan’18 - Apr’18 )
Guide: Prof. Abhay Karandikar, Electrical Engineering, IIT Bombay
◦ Studied different scheduling schemes for resource block allocation to users in LTE systems.
◦ Implemented channel aware scheduling schemes such as Maximum Throughput, Proportional Fairness,
Throughput to Average and compared all three scheduling schemes based on metrics such as cell throughput,
average user throughput and Jain Fairness index.
• Simulation of Cellular System in Octave
(Jan’18 - Apr’18 )
Guide: Prof. Abhay Karandikar, Electrical Engineering, IIT Bombay
◦ Computed SIR, blocking probability for different cluster sizes and sectoring.
◦ Analyzed handover process and ping-pong rate for different user mobilities and hysteresis values.
◦ Analyzed BER performance for space and time diversity in a slow flat fading Rayleigh channel.

◦ Analyzed BER performance for a single-cell and multi-cell scenario in a CDMA cellular system.
• Image Dehazing
(Jul’18 - Nov’18 )
Guide: Prof. Amit Sethi, Electrical Engineering, IIT Bombay
◦ Implemented Color Attenuation Prior and Dark Channel Prior techniques to estimate the depth map.
◦ Implemented Guided Filter to reconstruct the Haze-free image using Hazy Image and its depth map.
• Basic Image Editor tool in Python
(Jul’18 - Nov’18 )
Guide: Prof. Amit Sethi, Electrical Engineering, IIT Bombay
◦ Built a GUI tool using pyQt to implement Histogram equalisation, Gamma correction, Log transformation,
Horizontal and Vertical edge detection using Sobel operators, blurring and sharpening with a mechanism to
control the extent of blurring and sharpening respectively.
◦ Implemented Image Deblurring using Inverse filter, Truncated inverse filter, Weiner filter, Constrained least
square filter and analysed the performance with help of metrics PSNR and SSIM.
• Wavelet based leaders and P-leaders in Multi Fractal Analysis
(Jul’18 - Nov’18 )
Guide: Prof. Vikram M Gadre, Electrical Engineering, IIT Bombay
◦ Studied about p-exponents and multi-resolution quantity called p-leaders used to measure negative regularity
which appear in most real time signal analysis.
◦ Simulated p-leaders for several signals and was able to prove their convergence with DWT based Wavelet
leaders as p becomes large.
• Spam URL classification using Machine Learning
(Jan’19 - Apr’19 )
Guide: Prof. Gaurav S kasbekar, Electrical Engineering, IIT Bombay
◦ Studied 3 among the Top-10 vulnerabilities of OWASP Standard mainly XML external entity attack, SQL
injection, cross site scripting with practical implementation and proposed solutions.
◦ Classification of URLs using Machine Learning Techniques like Logistic Regression, Naive Bayes, Support
Vector Machine, One-vs-Rest.
◦ An increase of more than 2 percent in accuracy was obtained by replacing logistic regression by One-vs-Rest.
RELEVANT COURSES
• DSP and its Applications
• Statistical Signal Analysis
• Applied Linear Algebra
TECHNICAL SKILLS
Languages
Tools

:
:

• Wireless Mobile Communications
• Wavelets
• Image Processing

• Optimisation
• Network Security
• Information Theory and Coding

C, C++, Python, HTML, PHP, JQuery, Bash scripting.
MATLAB, LATEX, Git.

POSITIONS OF RESPONSIBILITY
• System Administrator: Electrical Department, IIT Bombay
(Jul’17 - Present)
◦ Building and maintaining the website of EE department, maintaining TA feedback and allotment portals.
◦ Providing mail service, storage space, computing facilities and network facilities to the department.
◦ Handled the Department M.Tech and PhD Admission process. Helped in generation of admit cards, coordinating
the answer sheet corrections.
• Web Nominee: Post Graduate Academic Council, IIT Bombay
(Jul’18 - Jun’19 )
◦ Designed new web portal for PGAC which is used by all the Post Graduate students of the institute.
• Mess Secretary: Hostel-1, IIT Bombay
(Sep’17 - Mar’18 )
◦ Managed all mess related activities for a mess which catered for 250+ students with an approximate budget of
8,00,000/- per month.
CO-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
• Completed Machine Learning course by Andrew Ng from Coursera.
(2019 )
• Conducted an introductory session on Linux, Vim and Git as a part of Bridge Course which helps in smooth
transition of new joiners to the institute.
(2019 )
• Volunteered for an introductory session on Python which was conducted as a part of Bridge Course.
(2019 )
• Completed a 100 hrs course on the Chinese language conducted by IR office, IIT Bombay.
(2019 )
• Completed a short term course on Digital System Design organised by C-DAC, Hyderabad.
(2015 )
• An active member of National Service Scheme (NSS) for 2 years and attended a camp conducted in a village
to perform social activities like conducting medical camps, cleaning and painting common facilities like village
panchayat, temple etc.
(2013 )
• Completed basic course in the French language from Vivekananda Institute of Languages, Hyderabad.
(2012 )
• Volunteered for 1st World Parliament on Spirituality for a week as part of NSS activity.
(2012 )
• Completed Diploma in spoken English from Vivekananda Institute of Languages, Hyderabad.
(2012 )

